# The command line or terminal interface

Believe it or not, before the world of windows, tabs, docks and menu bars, the only way to interact with a computer was through the command line. Even today there are a lot of powerful actions you can perform by just typing things into a terminal prompt. It’s like an instant messaging system between you and your computer!

## Essential Unix commands

---
You will be using these constantly from this point on, so feel free to print them out on a cheat sheet.

### ls

---

- **What it does**: List files.
- **Detail**: If you don't provide a folder it will look in the current folder. Often it's useful to see the list in a vertical format. You can do that using the `-l`. option. Also sometimes you need to see the hidden files. Use `a` option.
- **Examples**:
  - `ls stuff/`: list contents of the `stuff/` folder.
  - `ls -alh`: list contents of the current directory vertically, including hidden ones.

### cd

---

- **What it does**: Change into another directory.
- **Detail**: Can go up one level in the directory tree by using `..`.
- **Examples**:
  - `cd stuff/`: Change to the stuff/ directory.
  - `cd ..`: Go up one level.
  - `cd ../../other`: Go up two levels and change to the other directory.

### mkdir

---

- **What it does**: Create an empty directory.
- **Detail**: Can use `-p` option to make multiple sub-directories quickly.
- **Examples**:
  - `mkdir stuff`: Create the `stuff/` directory.
  - `mkdir -p work/mfr/assignment1`: Create the `work/` with `mfr/assignment1` directories inside.

### rm

---

- **What it does**: Remove a file or directory.
- **Detail**: Use `-r` option for deleting directories.
- **Examples**:
  - `rm file.txt`: Delete the `file.txt` file.
  - `rm -rf work/mfr/assignment1`: Delete the `work/mfr/assignment1` directory.

### cp

---

- **What it does**: Copy a file or directory.
- **Detail**: Takes two parameters: source and destination. Can use wildcard in source `*` to copy files that match a pattern. Use `-r` option for directories.
- **Examples**:
  - `cp program.js app.js`: Copies `program.js` to `app.js`.
  - `cp stuff/*.html html-files/`: Copies all files in `stuff/` that end in `.html` into - the `html-files/` folder.
  - `cp stuff/ stuff-copy`: Copies the `stuff/` directory as the `stuff-copy/` directory.

### mv

---

- **What it does**: Move and/or rename a file or directory.
- **Detail**: Takes two parameters: source and destination. Can use wildcard in source `*` to move files that match a pattern. If the destination is a folder, it will move the files into the folder and leave the file's name unchanged.
- **Examples**:
  - `mv program.js app.js`: Renames `program.js` to `app.js`.
  - `mv program.js stuff/`: Moves `program.js` into `stuff/`.
  - `mv stuff/*.html html-files/`: Moves all files in `stuff/` that end in `.html` into the `html-files/` folder.

### touch

---

- **What it does**: Create a new empty file.
- **Detail**: Takes one parameter, the name of the file. You can create multiple files at once by putting more than one name.
- **Examples**:
  - `touch newfile.txt`
  - `touch file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt`

### open

---

- **What it does**: Open a file or directory.
- **Detail**: Takes one parameter file or folder to open. If we don't specify an app it will open the file with the default application for that file-type. We can choose the program we want to use adding `-a appName` between `open` and `filename`. We can also open more than one file at a time concatenating files.
- **Examples**:
  - `open myFile1`: Opens myFile1
  - `open myDirectory`: Opens myDirectory
  - `open myFile1 myFile2 myFile3`: Opens myFile1, myFile2 and myFile3
  - `open -a appName myFile1`: Opens myFile1 with appName
  - `open .`: Opens current directory

### pwd

---

- **What it does**: Show the current directory.
- **Detail**: Short for *print working directory*, not password (I know!). Doesn't take any options, just use it as-is to remind yourself where you are.
- **Examples**:
  - pwd

## Exercises

---


- Print the name of the folder you’re in
- Show a list all of the files that are in this folder
- Make a new folder and call it `madrid_for_refugees`
- Inside your `madrid_for_refugees` folder, make a new folder called `Projects`
- Go back to the `madrid_for_refugees` folder and make another folder called `Exercises`
- Inside the `Exercises` folder, make a new file called `first.txt`
- Open `first.txt`
- Create two more files called `second.txt` and `third.txt`
- Show a list of all the files in this folder
- Move `second.txt` to your `Projects` folder
- In your `Exercises` folder, rename the `third.txt` file to `second.txt`
- Copy the `first.txt` file from your `Exercises` folder to your `Projects` folder
- Go to your `Projects` folder and delete all the files
- Delete the `Projects` directory


If you feel like this is too little for you, take a look at [this github repository](https://github.com/scottjoseph/cmd-exercises) full of cli exercises!

For the next lesson, you'll learn how to upload all your code to your repository with [git](./git.md)!