# Three Doors Exercise

## Learning checklist

---

These are the commands you should know and understand before starting the exercise:

```
git init
git add
git status
git commit
git log
git diff
git checkout
git merge
```

Using what you just learned in the guides, let's try to make our first Git repository (repo for short) and see what Git can do.

### Your first repo

---


- Make a new folder and call it `git-practice`. Initialize a Git repo.
- Make a new text file and called `three_doors.txt` and copy the following text in it: You are in a room with three doors.
- Add and commit the changes with the message "first commit".
- Write the next sentence in the text file: `Which door will you go through?`
- Check the status of your Git repo
- Commit the changes, preferably with a descriptive message.
- Check the log to see if the changes were committed correctly.

### Alternate realities

---


- Write some more changes in the file - write down which door you choose to enter.
- Use `git diff` to see the changes you just made.
- Write the output of the diff in a file called first_choice.txt and commit **only that file**.
- Discard the changes you made in `three_doors.txt`.
- Create a third file called `second_choice.txt`, add some text to it - this time, choose a different door.
- Commit `second_choice.txt`.
- Write some changes in that file - for example, what is behind the door? - and commit it again.

### Rewriting history

---

- Make a new branch called **new** from your current branch.
- In the **new** branch, go to the `second_choice.txt` file and write an alternative for what you found behind the door. Commit those changes.
- Merge the **new** branch changes into the original branch.


**Please, remember to upload this exercise to your Github repository so that one of our teachers can take a look at it. Happy coding! :D**